RESTAT EDITOR 

1. First, there is broad concern about various assumptions that you make about equity returns.
2. Second, multiple reviewers are skeptical of the size of the marginal contribution of the paper relative to
existing work. 
3. Third, there are a range of more diverse comments and questions about the technical details of your analysis.


1.	RESTAT_1 
a.	Double counting of income -- DONE 
b.	Haig-Simons income means removing taxes & adding transfers -- go into more detail on my measure, noting that it is pre-tax and pre-transfer. 
    i.	Traditional Haig-Simons is a pre-tax rate. It is traditionally described as “consumption plus change in net worth”, but that isn’t correct --- it should also add back taxes. It is an ability to pay measure. And it also includes transfers. 
    ii.	What I should do --- rename my income source to be “comprehensive income.” This is a pre-tax comprehensive income --- 
    iii.	For Haig-Simons  --- ability to pay --- which adds back transfers 
iv.	And then a post-tax income. 
v.	Larrimore is wrong in saying that Haig-Simons income is pre-tax 
c.	Issues with baseline PSZ estimates
d.	Effective tax rate
i.	Include transfers in the income denominator, and deduct refundable tax credits in the numerator
e.	Fixed income assets and removing inflation. 
f.	Unclear contribution
i.	Heterogeneous returns --- already done in SZZ
ii.	How it improves in Larrimore? 
g.	Differences with Larrimore --- our spike is earlier (in 2003) 

2.	Letter 2
a. My concern is that, currently, it comes across as an accounting exercise – I’d like to see the empirical results more closely integrated to the underlying economics (where do gains come from, what does this mean for how we
should tax them). 
b. The precise quantitative results depend crucially on some key assumptions (e.g. return homogeneity). 
Minor Notes:
a.	Conceptual framework – Mirless Review about taxation of normal vs excess returns. Reference to the Aguiar  And how volatility is related to the ability to tax it.
b.	Introduction --- hard going. Clearer structure, figure too much detail.
c.	Contribution --- what is the idea here? That capital gains are skewed? That income inequality is even higher?  It would also be useful to have a clearer statement of the contribution relative to the DINA and SZZ papers – what does the current paper do that aligns with the previous papers, and what does it do differently?
d.	Owner occupied housing --- better describe non-itemizers 
e.	Business wealth --- compare with estimates in SZZ
f. One thing that might be really helpful is a summary table that describes
the different components in the computation of total cap gains, the data used to estimate
them, the key assumptions underpinning them (and whether these are new or standard).
g.	Taxation --- what to make of these? Should we be taxing all unrealized gains? Behavioural responses would be huge. PF / optmal tax discussions. 
g.	Tax form in key paper not necessary. Reconciliation with the first sentence of the paper with Figure 1. 
3.	Letter 3
a.	Heterogeneous returns to equity
b.	Incidence of tenant-occupied residential real estate
c.	Use of tax return addresses
d.	Focusing the paper --- too many results
e.	Interest driven revaluations of equity and housing. 
4.	Letter 4
a.	Highlight differences relative to SZZ --- showing that our method is different or more accurate. Bottom line is that readers deserve a more explicit explanation. 
b.	Possible to do simulations assuming heterogeneous returns on equity? 
5.	Letter 5 
a.	Sensitivity Analysis --- how do the results change if we assume different cap factors or het returns?
i.	Can we do business heterogeneous returns?
b.	We don’t fully describe how partnerships are related to individuals. 
c.	Additional issues, details with partnerships. 
d.	Defense of capital gains in Haig-Simons is half-baked --- DOUBLE COUNTING. 
