Notes on Response to Referees

The year 2021 yielded $16.2 trillion in aggregate capital gains on assets held by households in the United States — 94% of net national income, and an amount larger than wages, dividends, or interest income . While 2021 returns were un-usually large, economically signifcant gains have become increasingly common: over the past two decades, real asset appreciation averaged 20% of national income. 

Existing research has explained the rise in asset values by secular changes in earnings and profits, driven by monopoly rents, retained earnings, intangible investment, and a shift in income to the corporate sector. The rise in capital gains in turn has been linked to a number of macroeconomic phenomena: an increase in household leverage prior to the Great Recession in response to elevated housing values, an increase in spending and local employment in response to stock market returns, and an increase in aggregate wealth. Less is known, however, on who receives the gains. Measuring these gains is important not only to better understand their substantial aggregate effects on consumption, savings, and wealth, but to also to better understand how they affect measures of the distribution of income, wealth inequality, and optimal tax policy. We note that most measures of income inequality, including the DINAs, do not include capital gains as part of their income measure.

The goal of this paper is to estimate the distribution of capital gains at the individual level, and document how they are correlated across income, wealth, realized capital gains, demographics, and geography. We will then study how capital gains affect measures of income inequality, tax progressivity, and wealth inequality. 

We do so using internal tax data from 2002-2021. The advantage of tax data is its comprehensiveness, spanning the entire income and wealth distribution. The disadvantage is that only realized sales of assets directly show up on tax forms, which are only a small fraction of total appreciation (the sum of unrealized and realized). Prior research has found only about 1/3rd of the stock of capital gains have been realized.

To estimate realized and unrealized gains at the individual level, we use a three step procedure: (i) link individuals to their specific portfolio holdings (ii) capitalize income (using heterogenoeus capitalization factors when available) to estimate wealth (iii) estimate capital appreciation by multiplying wealth by asset class specific returns (using heterogeneous returns when available). In doing so, we exploit never before used tax forms, new data sources, and improved estimation techniques to provide the most accurate available measures of wealth and capital gains at the individual level. We highlight three innovations here: (i) we use techniques from the network economic literature to better track partnership wealth through network chains of ownership, which allows us to trace 90% of partnership assets to their ultimate owners (ii) we use never before used tax form to link 100% of rental real estate assets to their ultimate owner, which allows for a more accurate estimate of real estate wealth and capital gains (iii) we use a new data source on private business sales to better estimate business valuations and capital gains. 

We document several key new findings. First, only a small fraction of aggregate capital gains have been realized: less than 20% of aggregated capital over our time period. These total gains are poorly proxied by tax realizations for three reasons: (i) a growing share of capital gains are held in tax exempt accounts (ii) individuals can delay selling assets, sometimes indefinitely (iii) capital gains reported to authorities are nominal, and combine income over many periods. The correlation of capital gains and realizations is only XXX. High income and wealth groups realize gains at a lower rate. 

Demographically, capital gains are dominated by the relatively elderly; the average 65 year old has XXX in capital gains, compared with YYY for a 25 year old. As the population as a whole ages, so does the concentration of capital gains in the aged. Across geography, [states that have high KGs]. Their correlation with labor income, capital income, wealth, etc. 

The most striking fact about capital gains is their concentration. Capital gains are the most concentrated form of income: the the top 1% (10%) received 45.3% (75.7%) of total revaluations over our sample period. The wealthiest 1% received 90% of capital gains, while holding only 60% of wealth. 

We estimate the distribution of Haig-Simons income, which is inclusive of capital gains. Because capital gains are so concentrated, they substantially increase income inequality. The top 1% (10%) of individuals received 21.0% (47.9%) of Haig-Simons income; their share without capital gains is 18% (45%). Capital gains on public and private equity are the main driver of the increased concentration, while housing and pension capital gains lead to a more equal distribution of income. 

We estimate the effective tax rate on aggregate capital gains and Haig-Simons income. Althought the average marginal statutory tax rate on realized gains is 18%, the average effective nominal tax rate on total gains is just 3%, due primarily to low realization rates. Low tax rates on capital gains lower the overall tax rate on Haig-Simons income, particularly for high income individuals, who receive large shares of capital gains. As a result, the tax-system is substantially less progressive when measured by Haig-Simons income, with tax rates roughly flat across the income distribution. 

The primary contribution of this paper is to study capital gain income, however our overall estimates of income inequality are affected by our assumptions about the distribution of standard labor and capital income, as well as the incidence of taxes and government spending. Overall, our results on income concetration and tax progressivity are robust to a variety of assumptions of alternative measurement assumptions for cap rates, heterogeneous returns, and unmeasured income. While the level of income contration may change (sometimes substantially), the effect of adding capital gains always substantially raises measured inequality. 

A long-standing criticism of Haig-Simons income is that when asset price changes are caused by declining interest rates and/or changes in discount rates, individual welfare cannot be computed from the change in asset prices, since in addition to the endowment effect of higher asset values there is an offsetting effect of future lower returns. In a series of robustness exercises, we show, consistent with prior research, the majority of long-run capital gains over the sample period were caused by changes in dividend flows rather than interest rate changes and/or discount rate changes. In addition, we construct capital gains series purged of interest rate and discount rate variation, and show that the resulting distributional series are largely unchanged. 
